.\" Copyright (C) 2009, 2016 Massimo Loschi <ccfedevel@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" This is is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this manual; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.\" $Id: ccfe.conf.5,v 1.2 2010/03/14 09:51:00 mloschi Exp mloschi $
.TH "CCFE.CONF" 5 "June 2026" "ccfe 2.3.1" "Curses Command Front-end"
.SH NAME
ccfe.conf \- the Curses Command Front-end configuration file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ccfe.conf
is the main configuration file for \fBccfe\fP. It determines the aspect of the screens provided
by the Curses Command Front-end and some other features.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The \fIccfe configuration file\fR contains entries in the form:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fCglobal {}
menu_global {}
form_global {}
field_attr {}
browser_global {}\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The order in which they appear is not important.
.B Comments
begin with the "\fB#\fR" character, and continue until the end of the line.
Empty lines are ignored. Keywords are not case sensitive.
Every \fIconfiguration section\fR is a collection of \fIparameters\fR with the following syntax:
.LP
.PD .1v
.RS
.nf
\fC  configuration_section {
    parameter = value
    parameter = value
     ...
    parameter = value
  }\fP
.fi
.PD
.RE
.PP
Valid parameters are explained later with the following format:

.B parameter_name
.RS
Parameter description.
.PP
.I Values:
Notes on the syntax of the value of the field.
If is present a list of values, the first element of the list is
the default.
The \fB""\fR value represents the null value.
.br
.I Required:
\fIYes\fR or \fIno\fR, depending if the parameter is mandatory or not.
.br
.RE
.SS Program instances
Implemented, but not yet documented!

.SS Configuration overrides
It is possible to run CCFE by
calling it with alternative names, so you can have a CCFE with a particular
configuration for specific tasks: for example, you can configure CCFE
to appear as the IBM AIX's System Management Interface Tool (SMIT), and invoke
it with the \fBsmit\fR command, so your operations people can have a similar
interface to administer both AIX and both Linux hosts.
In this case you simply need to make symbolic link (or a hard link) called
\fBsmit\fR to \fBccfe\fR, so CCFE will refer all its objects with the
name used to call it: it read the global configuration file \fBccfe.conf\fR
and next the \fIinstance configuration file\fR smit.conf, then it refers for
menus and forms to the directory $PREFIX/lib/smit instead the default
\fC$PREFIX/lib/ccfe\fR, then load the default menu \fC$PREFIX/lib/smit/ccfe.menu\fR

.SH GLOBAL CONFIGURATION SECTION
The
.B global {}
section defines general configuration parameters.

.SS screen_layout
Defines the layout of the screen: \fBnormal\fR if you want reverse background of the
pop-up windows, centered menu options, screen areas separated by horizontal lines and
titles in bold font, but if you plan to use \fBccfe\fR with low functions terminals
and you don't want these features, you can set it as \fBsimple\fR.
.PP
Values:
.BR normal | simple
.br
Required: No

.SS hide_cursor
Show or hide the cursor.
.PP
Values:
.BR YES | NO
.br
Required: No

.SS show_screen_name
Show the file name of menu or form in the right of the top line
of the screen.
.PP
Values:
.BR YES | NO
.br
Required: No

.SS path
.PP
Values:
.BR YES | NO
.br
Required: No

.SS theme
.PP
Pull in a named colour/style theme. The value is the
.I NAME
of a theme shipped (or installed by the administrator) as
\fITHEME_DIR_PLACEHOLDER/ccfe.conf.NAME\fR \(em for example
.BR smit ", " smit-color ", " smit-panel " or " console \(em
and its settings are read as if that file were appended to the configuration
path, so they take effect on top of the current configuration. The special
value
.B default
(or an empty value) selects no theme.
.PP
This is what the runtime theme switcher writes to your personal configuration:
choosing
.RB \(dq "Select colour theme" \(dq
from the built-in \fBconfig\fR menu lists the installed themes, saves your
choice as a \fBtheme\fR line and applies it immediately (see the \fBreload\fR
key function). Because the switch is written to the user configuration, it is
ignored under \fBrestricted\fR mode, where a system-set theme still applies.
.PP
Values:
.I NAME
.br
Required: No

.SS notify_file
.PP
Path of a file polled for notifications (FEATURE-REQUESTS D1). Whenever a menu
screen is entered, if the file exists and is non-empty its contents are shown as
a pop-up banner. Each distinct write is shown once \(em the file is identified
by its modification time and size, so rewriting it (or appending) re-notifies,
and emptying it arms the next write. The file is
.B not
consumed, so the producer owns clearing it. A leading
.B ~
is expanded to the home directory; an empty value disables the feature. This is
the minimal file-poll version; a socket/inotify listener may be added later.
.PP
Values:
.I PATH
.br
Required: No

.SS keymap
.PP
Pull in a named keymap preset \(em a complete set of key bindings shipped (or
installed by the administrator) as
\fIKEYMAP_DIR_PLACEHOLDER/ccfe.keys.NAME\fR. The presets are:
.RS
.TP
.B classic
The traditional F1\(enF9 SMIT layout (the default look).
.TP
.B safe
Every function keeps its F-key but also gains a Meta/Alt alternate, so the UI
stays usable on terminals that steal the function keys.
.TP
.B nano
A GNU nano / Ctrl-key flavoured map (^G help, ^X quit, ^O save, ...).
.TP
.B mc
A Midnight Commander flavoured layout.
.RE
.PP
The preset's
.B keymap
section (see the KEYMAP CONFIGURATION SECTION below) redefines the bindings.
The special value
.B default
(or empty) selects no preset. This is what the runtime
.RB \(dq "Select key map" \(dq
switcher on the \fBconfig\fR menu writes to your personal configuration and
applies immediately. Ignored under \fBrestricted\fR mode, where a system-set
keymap still applies.
.PP
Values:
.I NAME
.br
Required: No

.SS shell
.PP
The shell used for the execution of every command string specified in forms
and menus.
.B WARNING: no check is actually made on the validity of the shell:
for example, it is not verified that it is listed in
\fC/etc/shells\fR
system file.

.SS user_shell
.PP
The shell called when user presses
.B <shell_escape key>
key.
If \fBuser_shell\fR is not present in configuration file, then the user's shell
in \fC/etc/passwd\fR system file will be used. Else, if it is present 
but it is not valid (that is, not listed in \fC/etc/shells\fR system
file), then the message with ID \fBBAD_SHELL_MSG\fR (see the \fBMULTILINGUAL SUPPORT\fR
section in
.BR ccfe (1)
manpage) will be displayed in a pop-up window.
So, if you want to disable the user escape shell, you simply have to set an invalid
value to \fBuser_shell\fR parameter. For example
.LP
.PD .1v
.RS
.nf
user_shell = DISABLED
.fi
.PD
.RE
.PP

.SS log_level
Define the verbosity of the log file.
The default configuration only log actions with \fBlog\fR option.
Except the first level, which can be used to trace user activity, all other details are useful for debugging purposes during new menus or forms development.
Invoking \fBccfe\fR with \fB-d\fR option enables the maximum log detail,
depending by \fBpermit_debug\fR parameter explained below.

.TP
.BR 1 " (LOG_NORMAL)"
Write to logfile the commands executed by the actions with the \fBlog\fR attribute
specified.
.TP
.BR 2 " (LOG_LIST_CMD)"
Write to logfile informations related \fBlist_cmd\fR of type \fBcommand\fR attributes:
executed commands and their output.
.TP
.BR 4 " (LOG_DEFAULT_CMD)"
Write to logfile details of commands executed to setup the default value
of forms fields. 
.TP
.BR 8 " (LOG_ACTION_CMD)"
Write to logfile the commands invoked by action blocks.
.TP
.BR 16 " (LOG_FIELD_VALS)"
Write to logfile the value of fields before execute action blocks.
.TP
.BR 32 " (LOG_MENU_CHOICE)"
Write to logfile selections in menus and pop-up menus.
.TP
.BR 64 " (LOG_ACTION_OUT)"
Write to logfile the output of executed action blocks.
.TP
.BR 128 " (LOG_SYSCALL_ENV)"
Write to logfile the environment used to execute external commands.
.TP
.BR 256 " (LOG_SCAN_PATHS)"
Write to logfile the search path used to look for forms, menus, and
configuration files.
.TP
.BR 512 " (LOG_INITFORM_OUT)"
Write to logfile the output of executed init blocks.

Examples:

.nf
\fC  log_level = 1    # Log only actions with \fBlog\fR attribute

  log_level = 577  # 577 = 1 + 64 + 512\fR
.fi


.SS permit_debug
.PP
If \fBYES\fR, users can enable debugging messages in their logfiles by invoking \fBccfe\fR
with \fB-d\fR option. Please see the
.BR ccfe (1)
manpage.
.PP
Values:
.BR YES | NO
.br
Required: No

.SS load_user_objects
.PP
Define if $HOME/.ccfe directory has to be scanned when load \fBccfe\fR configuration,
forms and menus.
.PP
Values:
.BR NO | YES
.br
Required: No

.SS mouse
.PP
Enable mouse support. When \fBYES\fR, in menu screens a single click selects an
item and a double click activates it. Requires a terminal and \fBncurses\fR
build with mouse reporting.
.PP
Values:
.BR NO | YES
.br
Required: No

.SS restricted
.PP
Enable restricted (kiosk) mode. When \fBYES\fR, \fBccfe\fR is hardened into a
boundary rather than a convenience: configuration files that are writable by the
invoking user are ignored, the temporary shell escape is disabled (and removed
from the key bar), and the \fBsystem\fR and \fBexec\fR action verbs are refused
unless the command is allowlisted with \fBrestricted_allow\fR (see below). The
\fBrun\fR verb remains an explicit, unconstrained shell command and is \fInot\fR
constrained by the allowlist. To make this a real boundary the system
configuration must own the object and configuration directories; please see the
.B SECURITY
section of the
.BR ccfe (1)
manpage.
.PP
Values:
.BR NO | YES
.br
Required: No

.SS restricted_allow
.PP
Comma-separated allowlist of program names permitted as \fBsystem\fR and
\fBexec\fR action targets when \fBrestricted\fR is enabled. Matching is on the
command's first token, by basename (so \fIls\fR matches \fC/bin/ls\fR). Has no
effect unless \fBrestricted = YES\fR. May be given more than once; the entries
accumulate.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
\fC  restricted_allow = df, uptime, /usr/bin/who\fP
.fi
.PP
Required: No

.SS key_f1
.SS key_f2
.SS key_f3
.SS key_f4
.SS key_f5
.SS key_f6
.SS key_f7
.SS key_f8
.SS key_f9
.SS key_f10
.SS key_f11
.SS key_f12
Assign a function to keyboard standard programmable keys. The functions available are the
following:
.PP
.RS
.TP
.B back
Exits from current form or menu or pop-up window and go to the previous
(if any) without executing action.
.TP
.B exit
Exit from \fBccfe\fR.
.TP
.B help
Show the contextual help. Please see the
.BR ccfe_help (5)
manual page.
.TP
.B list
Show a pop-up window with a list of admitted values for the entry field to select from. Depending on the list type,
it is possible to select just one value or multiple values. Keys enabled for the
selection are:
.RS
.TP
.BR "<sel_items key>" " or " <Spacebar>
Please see the explanation of the function \fBsel_items\fP below.
.TP
.BR <A> " or " <a>
Only available in multiple values lists, select all the items.
.TP
.BR <U> " or " <u>
Only available in multiple values lists, unselect all the items.
.TP
.BR "<Left arrow>" " and " "<Right arrow>"
Scroll horizontally the menu if it is more wider than the pop-up window.
.TP
.B </>
Find an item in the list, starting from the current and using the
.BR menu_pattern (3X)
menu pattern match management.
.TP
.BR <n> " or " <N>
Find the next item, using the search pattern previously entered with the \fB/\fR (find) command.
.TP
.B <Enter>
Close the pop-up window and put the selected value(s) in the field.
.RE
.TP
.B redraw
Refresh the screen if it has been accidentally overwritten, for example, by a
.BR write (1)
command from another user.
.TP
.B reload
Re-read the configuration files at runtime and re-apply the settings that do
not need the terminal rebuilt: colours and the various \fI*_attr\fR values, the
function-key bindings, the behaviour toggles (\fBhide_cursor\fR,
\fBshow_screen_name\fR, \fBmark_noaction_items\fR, ...) and the
\fBvariables\fR. This is the same action offered as
.RB \(dq "Apply configuration now" \(dq
on the built-in \fBconfig\fR menu, so a change made with the configuration
wizard takes effect immediately. Switching the \fBmouse\fR or the screen
\fBlayout\fR on or off, and \fBrestricted\fR mode, still require a restart, and
the pop-up shown after a reload says so.
.TP
.B search
Search across every menu and form on the search path \(em titles, top/bottom
text, item descriptions and form field labels \(em and jump to a match.  Prompts
for a pattern (matched literally, case-insensitively), lists the matching
objects and opens the one chosen.  Also offered as
.RB \(dq "Search menus and forms" \(dq
on the main and \fBconfig\fR menus.  Distinct from the output browser's in-pane
.B /
search, which searches one command's output.
.TP
.B reset_field
Resets the value of the actual field to the one at the form submission.
.TP
.B save
In form screens: save the actual value of the fields in the logfile.
In output browser screen: save in a text file the displayed output, or save the action
in a shell script ready for execution outside \fBccfe\fR.
.TP
.B sel_items
Only available in multiple values lists, select or unselect the higlighted item.
.TP
.B shell_escape
Escapes temporary to a shell (please see \fBuser_shell\fR parameter in
.BR ccfe.conf (5)
man page).
.TP
.B show_action
In a \fIform screen\fP, displays a pop-up window with the action that will be executed by pressing \fB<Enter>\fR,
with the values actually in the fields.
In a \fIoutput browser screen\fP, displays a pop-up window with the executed action.
.RE
.PP
Please note that these parameters does not change the label of the function
key on the screens: you have to modify the corrisponding definition
\fBKEY_xxxx_LABEL\fR in the \fIglobal messages configuration file\fR
\fCMSG_DIR_PLACEHOLDER/LOCALE_ID/ccfe\fR.
.PP
Example:

.nf
\fC  In /etc/ccfe/ccfe.conf:
.fi
.RS
.B key_f10 = exit
.RE
.PP
.nf
\fC  and in /usr/lib/ccfe/msg/C/ccfe:
.fi
.RS
.B KEY_F10_LABEL = """Quit"""
.RE
.PP
.br
Required: No


.SH KEYMAP CONFIGURATION SECTION
The optional
.B keymap {}
block binds functions to keys with more freedom than the F-key-centric
.B key_fN
parameters: a function may answer to several keys, and to keys other than the
function keys. Each line is
.PP
.RS
.IR FUNCTION " = " "SPEC" "[, " SPEC " ...]"
.RE
.PP
where
.I FUNCTION
is one of the names listed under
.B key_f1..key_f12
above and each
.I SPEC
is one of:
.RS
.TP
.BR F1 .. F12
a function key;
.TP
.BI M- x
a Meta/Alt chord (Alt + the character
.IR x );
.TP
.BI ^ X
a Ctrl chord (Ctrl +
.IR X ,
a letter);
.TP
.I c
a single printable key.
.RE
.PP
The first spec is the
.I primary
(shown in the footer bar); the rest are alternates, all of which trigger the
function. A
.B keymap
line replaces that function's bindings, so a preset (see the
.B keymap
global above) is a complete map. Meta chords arrive ESC-prefixed; a lone
.B Esc
is still \(lqcancel\(rq, disambiguated by a short timeout (the
.B ESCDELAY
environment variable, default 25\ ms). For example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
keymap {
  list = F2, M-l
  back = F4, M-b, ^B
  exit = F9, M-q
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
.br
Required: No


.SH VARIABLES CONFIGURATION SECTION
The optional
.B variables {}
block defines named values that menu and form authors can reference, to avoid
repeating the same path or command fragment across many objects.  Each line is a
.B NAME = value
pair; the value may be optionally quoted and may reference other variables with
.BR $NAME " or " ${NAME} \fR.
Inter-variable references are resolved once, when the configuration is loaded
(so order does not matter), and a reference to an undefined name is left
verbatim.
.PP
In a menu or form
.BR action " and in a field's " list_cmd
command, every
.BR $NAME / ${NAME}
that names a defined variable is replaced with its value before the command
runs; any other
.B $...
(for example
.BR $HOME )
is left untouched for the shell.  Variable names are case-sensitive and consist
of letters, digits and underscores.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
\fC  variables {
    DOCKER_DIR = /srv/docker
    COMPOSE    = cd $DOCKER_DIR && docker compose
  }\fP
.fi
.PP
A menu item could then use
.BR "action = run:$COMPOSE up -d" \fR,
which runs
.BR "cd /srv/docker && docker compose up -d" \fR.
.PP
.B Security note:
the substitution writes the variable's value into the command string, so the
variables are as trusted as the menus and forms themselves.  Under
.B restricted
mode the configuration is locked to system-owned files, so unprivileged users
cannot define or change them; and the restricted command allow-list is still
checked against the command as written, so a bare
.B $VAR
program name is refused unless allow-listed.
.PP
Required: No


.SH FORM CONFIGURATION SECTION
The
.B form_global {}
block defines the parameters common to all \fBccfe\fR instance forms.
Some parameters can depend by terminal name in which \fBccfe\fR is running:
please see the
.B TERMINAL-DEPENDENT SETTINGS
section below.

.SS field_pad
.PP
Defines the character used to fill normal fields.
Be careful to conversion to blanks performed by 
.BR ncurses (3X)
library: for example, if \fBfield_pad="_"\fR and the user inserts the value
"root_vg usr_vg var_vg" in a field, it appears on screen as
"root_vg_usr_vg_var_vg", but the string "root vg usr vg var vg" will be
passed to \fBaction {}\fR block!

Values:
A charachter delimited by double quote, for example: \fBfield_pad = " "\fR
.br
Default: \fB" "\fR
.br
Required: No

.SS hidden_field_pad
.PP
Defines the character used to fill fields of \fBhidden\fR type.

Values:
A charachter delimited by double quote, for example: \fBhidden_field_pad = "X"\fR
.br
Default: \fB"*"\fR
.br
Required: No

.SS initial_ovl_mode
Set the overlay mode at program startup to input characters in the fields; if \fBNO\fR the
insert mode is selected.
.PP
Values:
.BR YES | NO
.br
Required: No

.SS show_changed_fields
Display with a different video attribute the value of the fields changed by the user.
Please see the
.BR changed_value_fg " and " changed_value_bg
parameters in the \fBFORM FIELD ATTRIBUTES CONFIGURATION SECTION\fP.
.PP
Values:
.BR YES | NO
.br
Required: No

.SS show_field_flags
Show flags (for instance, the \fB*\fP character before fields with required value) for
every field.
.PP
Values:
.BR YES | NO
.br
Required: No

.SS show_dots
Fill with some dots the gap between prompt and value of fields of forms.
.PP
Values:
.BR YES | NO
.br
Required: No

.SS value_delimiters
Specify the characters to use to show when starts and ends the value of
the field. Useful when \fBfield_pad\fR is a blank.
.PP
Values:
A couple of charachters delimited by double quote and separated by a comma:
for example: \fBvalue_delimiters = "[","]"\fR
.br
Default: \fB" "," "\fR
.br
Required: No
 
.PP

.SS field_value_pos
.PP
Define the column position of the screen for the fields value of the forms.
The special value \fB-1\fR (default) means they will be right aligned.
.PP
Values: \fIinteger value\fR
.br
Default: \fB-1\fR
.br
Required: No
.PP

.SS fnkeys_rows
.PP
Define the number of bottom rows of the screen used to display the function key labels defined
in the \fIccfe message file definition\fR. Warning: no check is made on this value.
.PP
Values: \fIinteger value\fR
.br
Default: \fB1\fR
.br
Required: No


.SH FORM FIELD ATTRIBUTES CONFIGURATION SECTION
The \fBfield_attr {}\fR and \fBactive_field_attr {}\fR blocks
defines the video attributes common to all \fBccfe\fR instance forms.
The accepted values are the standard
.BR ncurses (3X)
video attributes, as defined in \fB<ncurses.h>\fR: for example
.PP
.RS
.nf
field_attr {
  label_fg = A_NORMAL
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
Please see them in the
.BR curs_attr (3X)
manpage.
It is possible to define \fBfield_attr {}\fR and \fBactive_field_attr {}\fR blocks
for several terminal types: \fBccfe\fR use the one with the terminal type where
it is running;
please see the
.B TERMINAL-DEPENDENT SETTINGS
section below.

.SS label_fg
.PP
.SS label_bg
Fields label foreground and background video attributes.
.PP
.SS value_fg
.PP
.SS value_bg
Fields initial value foreground and background video attributes.
.PP
.SS changed_value_fg
.PP
.SS changed_value_bg
Foreground and background video attributes for fields value changed by user.
.PP

Please see the
.B EXAMPLES
section below.


.SH MENU CONFIGURATION SECTION
The
.B menu_global {}
block defines the parameters common to all \fBccfe\fR instance menus.

.SS mark_noaction_items
Options without defined action will be displayed inside parentheses.
.PP
Values:
.BR NO | YES
.br
Required: No
.PP

.SS fnkeys_rows
.PP
Define the number of bottom rows of the screen used to display the function key labels defined
in the \fIccfe message file definition\fR. Warning: no check is made on this value.
.PP
Values: \fIinteger value\fR
.br
Default: 1
.br
Required: No

.SS screen_attr
Video attribute for the menu screen background.
.PP
Values: a standard
.BR ncurses (3X)
video attribute (as defined in \fB<ncurses.h>\fR, see
.BR curs_attr (3X)),
a \fBCOLOR_PAIR(\fIn\fB)\fR, a \fBcolor_pair('\fIfg\fB','\fIbg\fB')\fR, an
integer, or a \fB|\fR-combination of these (the same value grammar as the
\fBfield_attr {}\fR keys).
.br
Default: \fBA_NORMAL\fR
.br
Required: No

.SS item_attr
Video attribute for menu items that are not selected. Value grammar as for
\fBscreen_attr\fR.
.br
Default: \fBA_NORMAL\fR
.br
Required: No

.SS selected_attr
Video attribute for the currently selected menu item. Value grammar as for
\fBscreen_attr\fR.
.br
Default: \fBA_REVERSE\fR
.br
Required: No

.SS title_attr
Video attribute for the screen title (applied only in the \fBnormal\fR screen
layout). Value grammar as for \fBscreen_attr\fR.
.br
Default: \fBA_BOLD\fR
.br
Required: No

.SS key_attr
Video attribute for the function-key labels in the footer. Value grammar as for
\fBscreen_attr\fR. If unset, the original background-relative highlight is used.
.br
Required: No


.SH OUTPUT BROWSER CONFIGURATION SECTION
The
.B browser_global {}
block defines the parameters for the screen used to browse the output of an executed
menu or form action. Available parameters are:

.SS max_rows
Size of the buffer used to display the standard output and error of the action executed.
If the action produces a bigger output, then a pop-up message window will inform the user
how to view it for entire.

.SS info_attr
Video attribute used to display the \fBccfe\fR generated messages (for example, when an action is
interrupted with \fB<Ctrl>+C\fR).
.PP
Values: a standard
.BR ncurses (3X)
video attribute, as defined in \fB<ncurses.h>\fR. Please
see them in the
.BR curs_attr (3X)
manpage.
.br
Default: \fBA_REVERSE\fR
.br
Required: No

.SS end_marker
String to show at the end of the output produced by \fBaction{}\fR block.
\fBinfo_attr\fR is used as video attribute.
.br
To disable it, please set it to a null value:
.nf
\fC  end_marker =
.fi
.PP
Values: \fIstring value\fR
.br
Default: \fB**** end of output ****\fR
.br
Required: No

.SS stderr_attr
Video attribute used to display the standard error rows.
.PP
Values: a standard
.BR ncurses (3X)
video attribute, as defined in \fB<ncurses.h>\fR. Please
see them in the
.BR curs_attr (3X)
manpage.
.br
Default: \fBA_BOLD\fR
.br
Required: No

.SS stdout_attr
Video attribute used to display the standard output rows.
.PP
Values: a standard
.BR ncurses (3X)
video attribute, as defined in \fB<ncurses.h>\fP. Please
see them in the
.BR curs_attr (3X)
manpage.
.br
Default: \fBA_NORMAL\fP
.br
Required: No

.SS fnkeys_rows
.PP
Define the number of bottom rows of the screen used to display the function key labels defined
in the \fIccfe message file definition\fR. Warning: no check is made on this value.
.PP
Values: \fIinteger value\fP
.br
Default: \fB1\fR
.br
Required: No


.SH TERMINAL-DEPENDENT SETTINGS
Some settings can depend on terminal type used to run \fBccfe\fP. For example

.nf
\fC  form_global { field_pad.linux = "_" }\fP
.fi

sets the parameter \fBfield_pad\fP only for terminals of type \fBlinux\fP.
The \fIterminal ID\fR to use is the same of the environment variable TERM,
case sensitive.
The effective parameter value depends by the order of its configuration:
for example:

.IP \(bu 3
Sets \fBfield_pad=" "\fP for all terminal types except \fBlinux\fP field_pad="_".

.nf
\fC  form_global {
    field_pad        = " "
    field_pad.linux  = "_"
    hidden_field_pad = "*"
  }\fP
.fi

.IP \(bu 3
Sets \fBfield_pad=" "\fP for every terminal type: the \fBfield_pad\fP overrides
the preceding \fBfield_pad.xterm\fP and \fBfield_pad.linux\fP:

.nf
\fC  form_global {
    field_pad.linux  = "_"
    field_pad.xterm  = "."
    field_pad        = " "
    hidden_field_pad = "*"
  }\fP
.fi

.PP
Terminal-dependent settings are:
.IP \(bu 3
form_global { field_pad }
.IP \(bu 3
field_attr {}
.IP \(bu 3
active_field_attr {}

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
\fC  # The Curses Command Front-end default configuration file.

  global {
    screen_layout       = Normal
    hide_cursor         = YES
    shell               = /bin/sh
    log_level           = 1
    #path                = /path/to/add:/another/path/to/add
    #user_shell          = /bin/ksh
  }

  browser_global {
    max_rows    = 5000
    info_attr   = A_REVERSE
    stderr_attr = A_BOLD
    stdout_attr = A_NORMAL
    end_marker  = **** end of output ****
  }

  menu_global {
    mark_noaction_items = YES
  }

  form_global {
    field_pad           = " "
    field_pad.linux     = "_"
    hidden_field_pad    = "*"
    show_changed_fields = YES
    show_field_flags    = YES
    initial_ovl_mode    = YES
  }

  field_attr {
    label_fg         = A_NORMAL
    label_bg         = A_NORMAL
    value_fg         = A_NORMAL
    value_bg         = A_UNDERLINE
    changed_value_fg = A_BOLD
    changed_value_bg = A_UNDERLINE
  }
  field_attr.linux {
    label_fg         = A_NORMAL
    label_bg         = A_NORMAL
    value_fg         = A_NORMAL
    value_bg         = A_NORMAL
    changed_value_fg = A_BOLD
    changed_value_bg = A_NORMAL
  }

  active_field_attr {
    label_fg         = A_BOLD
    label_bg         = A_NORMAL
    value_fg         = A_NORMAL
    value_bg         = A_REVERSE
    changed_value_fg = A_NORMAL
    changed_value_bg = A_REVERSE
  }\fP
.fi
.PP

.SH FILES

.TP
\fCETC_DIR_PLACEHOLDER/ccfe.conf\fR
Global configuration.

.TP
\fCETC_DIR_PLACEHOLDER/CALLNAME.conf\fR
Instance configuration. For example: \fCETC_DIR_PLACEHOLDER/foo.conf\fR,
\fCETC_DIR_PLACEHOLDER/bar.conf\fR

.TP
\fC$HOME/.ccfe/ccfe.conf\fR
User global preferences.

.TP
\fC$HOME/.ccfe/CALLNAME.conf\fR
User instance preferences.
For example: \fC$HOME/.ccfe/foo.conf\fR

.TP
\fCMSG_DIR_PLACEHOLDER/LOCALE_ID/CALLNAME\fR
Instance messages configuration.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ccfe (1),
.BR ccfe_form (5),
.BR ccfe_menu (5),
.BR ncurses (3X),
.BR curs_attr (3X),
.BR form (3X),
.BR shells (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Massimo Loschi <\fIccfedevel@gmail.com\fR>
